You have already
seen how to build
auto correct using edit distance.
Let's consider a slightly
different problem.
What if you're given two words,
strings or even whole
documents and you
wanted to evaluate
how similar they are?
Minimum edit distance
can be used to do this.
Given two strings, the
minimum edit distance is
the lowest number of
operations needed to
transform one string
into the other.
It has many applications.
In NLP, for example,
it could be used in
spelling correction,
document similarity, and
machine translation.
It can also be found in
computational biology
and DNA sequencing.
For calculating
minimum edit distance,
you will use three types
of edits operations.
All three operations that you
already know, insert, delete,
and replace, for example,
to turn play into stay,
what is the minimum
number of edits
required to make this happen?
To turn p into s,
you replace p with an s,
and to turn l into t,
you replace l with a t.
Both a and a are the
same, so do nothing.
It's the same with y and y.
The total number of edits is two.
Until this point,
you've considered
all edits operations
to cost the same.
That is a cost of one.
But now you'll consider
a different cost for
each type of operation.
You will use these costs to
calculate the edit distance,
which now represents
the total edits costs.
This is what you are
trying to minimize.
It is simply the sum of
costs for the edits
that were made.
Inserts and deletes
will have a cost of
one and replace
has a cost of two.
This makes intuitive
sense if you think of
replacements as it deletes
followed by an inserts.
Calculate for this example,
you have two replace
edits at a cost of two
each for a total edit
distance of four.
This is a relatively
simple example,
and it was possible to find
the minimum edit distance
just by looking at it.
But imagine the number of
operations between
much longer strings
and large corpora of texts
or even DNA strings.
You can try and solve these
problems by brute force,
adding one added distance
at a time and enumerating
for all possibilities until
one string changes to the other.
But this could take a
very, very long time.
In fact, by solving this way,
the computational
complexity increases
exponentially as each
string grows in length.
A much faster way is by
using a tabular approach.
You will implement this next.